For better or for worse, who is the most iconic professor in your department? Seems like a lot of departments have that professor. For better or for worse, who are they?

Dacher Keltner. For better - tough to find a more positive and vibrant person, probably owing to his perennial sunshine Santa Barbara-ness.

Terry Johnson in BioE

transfer boi I’m not in the law school, but I’d say John Yoo for their faculty. Perhaps infamous would be more appropriate than iconic, though.

C̸͕̃̑N̵̟̏R̸̻̞̍̄ ̶̺̃B̸̛͖̀Ỉ̵̱T̴͕̙̀C̵̛̮̯H̵͉̝́ ̶̦̲̚A̵̡̞̔l̵̻̀͠ū̵̫m̴ The professor Rausser who donated 50 million and CNR decided to change their name to ugh Rausser College.

In MCB, currently Jennifer Doudna. Or maybe Randy Schekman who won the Nobel Prize in 2013.

Probably Matt Walker

Econ '21 For better, Christina Romer

Don't forget David! Econ 2 with them is what made me decide to major in Economics

Econ '21 Same! It was my favorite class!

Paul Li! He’s the wholesome presence of CogSci. :^)

Not in public policy, but definitely Robert Reich

Laura Nader in Anthropology. When I was a student, the Anthro lounge had a sign that said "Debate Nader, I dare you."

RIP Rob Chandra

ChemE '19 Dr. Clayton Radke

CS/IB 2017 Tom Carlson in IB. He teaches like half of the upper divs in the department. He even has his own "Carlson Cult".

I wanted to love IB 140 but Carlson’s “teaching” was purely regurgitating slides. No exaggeration. He read each slide word for word :(

Physics/Math/CS '23 I'd nominate Andrew Charman for physics. Known for being an excellent lecturer and caring professor, but incredibly demanding in workload and exams. He's also extremely intimidating, which I can personally vouch for from my one run-in with him.

Physics/CS '20 Aw really? I found he was super accessible and friendly during office hours.

Physics/Math/CS '23 I definitely believe you that he's friendly in office hours. I've never had a class with him, but gave a research project pitch for a club where he was a surprise audience member. We were mostly clueless freshmen and he grilled us pretty hard, and was completely expressionless the whole time. I don't think he had any intention of being mean but it definitely scared the hell out of us. From everything I've heard I definitely have the impression that he's a caring guy and a passionate teacher, though- I actually really hope to take a class with him!

Physics/CS '20 Ahh okay, yeah I'd probably wilt under Charman in that situation too. Here's hoping you get a class with him too - mine was his infamous Physics 112 (Thermo/Statmech), but I definitely don't regret it a bit, even if it was hard as balls.

physics '22 I think he just looks intimidating if you haven’t ever talked to him- he’s like at least 6ft and has a bit of an intense look, so I can understand why people are kind of scared of him haha.

Einhorn is the professor to support.

For better, Adhikari.

Anant Sahai.fun

Raja Sengupta in E7. Just take a class with him and you know its GG. Apparently this sem he tried to do zoom proctoring even though the university banned it by asking the university to get them an exception. Legendary. Edit: Ima add Sahai here as an iconic professor. I wouldn't say he's good or bad, hes okay. Workload is a lot but FAIR TESTS. I've never seen a more fair test in my life. Word for word like the discussion or sometimes even easier. Literal definition of "hard but fair" and "suffer through homeworks, easy test, easy A"

Professor Wodzicki in the Math department haha. Or maybe on the positive side, Professor Paulin or Professor Ribet.

(c (s)tats) i had wodzicki sub for one of my math 54 lectures and within 2 minutes he insinuated we were all illiterate and we were going to fail the course. he also started on the hour instead of berkeleytime

'23 Taco&Co Definitely Ribet for the upper divs and Paulin for the lower divs. Or in other words Ribet for stem majors and Paulin for humanities. Also think Stankova deserves a fair consideration since she’s slightly infamous among premeds, but math majors love her.

I rather liked all of the math professors I had at Cal. It would be really hard for me to pick a favorite among them! Even the most “prestigious” professors I had were surprisingly dedicated to teaching and advocating for their students.

IB (Incessant Bitching) '23 +1 on Paulin, but idk how influential he is

CS '22 Without doubt DeNero.

I guess this question is supposed to be about undergrad teaching, but in terms of research there's Michael Jordan, Scott Shenker, Stuart Russell, and many others who are quite impactful.

Gotta agree with u/thechihuahua on this one -- DeNero is amazing, but I'd say Sahai's influence is much more broadly felt, given that he regularly teaches courses all the way from intro-level to senior-level.

Math + CS - CS + EE - Math Respectfully disagree. Denero is great, and definitely iconic, but I would say the most iconic is Sahai without a doubt. My reasoning is that Sahai has taught a wide variety of classes, making his presence that much bigger than Denero who sticks with mostly 61a.

EECS '23 tbf tho Sahai's influence is concentrated within the EECS and CS majors (16AB, 70, 189) but thousands of non-majors take DeNero's 61A

Math + CS - CS + EE - Math Sure, but 10's of thousands of non-majors hear their friends complain about having Sahai. Lesser note, but I'm sure pleanty of non-majors take 189, definitely not as many that take 61A or 61B.