Strategy for studying 61B with Hilfinger How should I study 61B weekly with Hilfinger? What should my general pattern be? Should I do the readings? Should I watch the lectures before the lab or after the lab or not watch lectures at all? For 61a with DeNero, my strategy was to watch through the lectures the day they came online (I prefer webcasting to live lecture) and then do the lab/hw a day or two before they came out. I also never read the textbook and never found it necessary. For tests, I would start doing practice papers a week before the test. So, what would you guys recommend for 61B?

For 61B you can make a ton of mistakes on projects or exams and still do very well. I didn’t attempt the AI component at all for one of the projects and didn’t do any of the extra credit besides checkpoints and still got an A. -Put your heart and soul into the projects and treat them like they’re the most important thing by far -Cut corners on the HW or labs when you’re low on time by checking to see what will get 2/2 credit (usually not a whole lot required). The last hw and lab have actual nontrivial autograders so I’d recommend trying to save a skip for each if you can. I wish I had lol -Don’t prioritize the lectures for any purpose other than your personal learning. Just focus on getting notes from the PowerPoints down for exams and they’re honestly not terribly impossible to get a respectable score on from my experience. If you screw something up don’t panic. I thought I was fucked when I missed a substantial portion of one of the projects due to getting overworked but still got an A regardless. Just roll with the punches and keep your head up if things don’t go your way because you have a lot of ways to redeem yourself.

i wrote a study guide last year, pm me for it!

EECS 99 give up & die. it's the only way. j/k lol good luck :)

You can actually carry your strategy over from 61A into 61B with just a few things in mind: Midterms are worth 8.5%. You shouldn't dedicate too much time in this compared to the 4 projects which are worth 50% of your grade. If you score 65~% on midterms and do all the project ECs (prolly like ~17 marks), you'll probably be like me where you'll have an A without even taking the final. Unlike 61A where everyone gets 100% on projects, there is surprisingly not that many people getting 100% on projects because of how hard it is (and he makes it hard intentionally). Homework and lab is effort based. You actually don't have to finish and pass the autograder 100% for full credit. Sometimes passing half the tests yields you full marks on the homework/lab (it'll show up in the autograder on their server since you don't have one like 61A). There are times where I just coded a bunch of garbage, returned the right type, and passed 1/3 tests for full credit. If webcast gets boring (its really dry), you can always watch Hugs from Sp19 and match the topics Hug webcasts to whatever Hilfinger teaches on the slides. I really recommend this as Hug teaches A LOT better. People have said it countless time but I'm gonna say it again: Start projects early. You might think after reading the spec "this isn't too bad". Actually pull the code and see how much you have to work to get the thing to work. You're no longer writing individual functions to make something work magically like Ants in 61A. You're now writing a full-scale project from some starter code, and with each project getting closer and closer to starting from scratch (a blank file). You're no longer debugging 1 function at a time, you're debugging the ENTIRE project working together. Linking to 4, the autograder is probably your worst enemy. He runs it once 24 hrs before the deadline and continuously AFTER the deadline (he might change in Sp2020 but i don't think so). Account for this when you're deciding how much time to spend. Account for the extra hours that you have to add debugging after failing like 80% of the autograder tests when he runs it before the deadline. Account for how slow it is with 1000+ people submitting. He has the easiest grading scheme out of most CS classes. 162/200 for an A. 100 points is projects, 20 points is homework + lab. Add some around 10 ECs and do average on tests and you're already at a B+/A-. Put in the work and this class will reward you at the end.

super agree with point 4 and 5 lmfao. my roommate started late on the last project in 61b and went into autograder submission super confident. He ended up getting like a 20%? or something really fuckin bad and he went into straight panic mode. dude stayed up for like 30+ hours straight and ended up finishing like friday of dead week 2AM. Needless to say, he got clapped on all of his finals.

Alum Who's Still Reading the Fking Manual I've been told consistently to watch Hug's lectures even if Hilfinger is teaching spring. Will I be missing anything that only Hilfinger teaches though?

Yes, I think only 1 topic Hilfinger loves and teaches that Hug doesn't teach: Bit manipulation. For some reason, hilfinger REALLY loves this topic and can spend 1-2 lectures just talking about it. Some people get it, some people don't. Its 2-3 marks on an exam, marks you can earn by doing project ECs or nailing other parts of the tests.

you will, their curriculum’s are slightly different. hilfinger especially loves bit-twiddling, which hug doesn’t touch at all. id recommend watching hug for anything that seems confusing after watching hilfinger’s lectures

projects are a huge majority of hilfingers 61b, everything else is either not very significant (exams) or not very hard (hw, labs, etc). just make sure you start every project early and set aside enough time. and seek help on projects when you get stuck

If those strategies worked for you in 61a, it is likely they will continue to work through 61b. If you think you learn best through webcasting and not doing supplemental readings, try that first and see if it works. The only additional advice I would give is to begin actual coding assignments (in particular projects) much earlier.