Who was your worst professor, and why? Just for shits and giggles, because I got a kick at looking at some of the low-rated ones under Rate My Professor earlier. If you want, you can instead write about the best professor you've had and why.

Richard Bamler, MATH 1A. Never again.

I think his name was Josh Goldstein He was not a very friendly fellow and very mean to students. Wrongfully accused me of cheating which I proved wrong and he jumped the fun

Wittenberg. OMG. Just what the eff, like bro is not equipped to teach. Just regurgitate a textbook.

Andrea Massari. If you see him teaching a stat class, avoid at all cost.

☻ ☻ ☻ Not naming names because that’s not the energy I want to give Comment Image but my professor whose class I disliked the most was for a lower-div math class, he refused to let me turn in my math homework online even though I was actively sick with COVID and when he gave the final to our class, he surprise-made it multiple choice even though we all were expecting it to be free response with partial credit (like the midterms). I felt patronized when I’d ask for help in the class also. My favorite professor, on the other hand, is a super interesting guy to talk with, always open to answer course questions, and gave me a lot of pointers/advice about internships and my post-undergrad plans!! Though I’m not in his classes right now sometimes I still go to his office hours because he’s so amazing

Raj sengupta E7

Adam Lucas

winnie wong. Rude af

When I took MCB C100A last fall, we had two professors - Eunyong Park and Jay Groves. Park taught the first third of the class. He was okay, but then Groves shows up, and he was just awful. He was monotonous, boring, and just kept droning on while no one could understand him. On the other hand, my most favorite professors are Dan Portnoy (PMB C103) and Robert Beatty (I had him for MCB 50 and 55). Portnoy's just so charismatic, and he's really fun to talk to even though his subject was challenging. Beatty's just so energetic and brilliant, and he was really supportive of me as well!

Hi Knockonwood 939, I am taking PMV C103 with Portnoy and Seed next semester. Is attendance mandatory and do they have recordings? It's hard for me to absorb everything in the lecture lol

Ah hello there! So when I took the class, attendance wasn't mandatory but there were no recordings, so you basically had to be there. I will say that this class will cover a lot of material in each lecture (or at least most of 'em), but you can just record the audio for later, and from my experience both professors are quite approachable anyway.

Comment deleted by user

Okay that's harsh for sure. However, I don't know if that's his own policy or something that the class/department always had. Still, I don't blame you for being so frustrated over him. When I took bio 1A, I fell really sick right before midterm 2, but I still had to take it (it was either that or they had some "predicted score" system that I don't remember the details about).

It is ON SIGHT with jay groves Never had a teacher make me hate a subject so much My advisor recommended I not take 120A p Chem because it was my first semester at cal (valid) and then turned around and recommended that class instead (NOT VALID) This course is cross listed as CHEM C130 for any chem bio majors like me who may not know better

I got into the class via Chem C130 (I'm not a chem major). In terms of my experience, I think it was one of the worst classes I've taken.

Comment deleted by user

I am so glad I don't have to deal with that nonsense again.

Comment deleted by user

Wow, it was that rough for you? I'm really sorry to hear that. I don't blame you at all, though. That class was way too confusing! I did well in the end, but that's because I threw an unreal amount of work at it to conquer it.

dibble for thermodynamics. literally didn't cover any material during lecture. would only comment on the figures in the textbook for 50 min

ME 104 Fai Ma. His lectures are just him reading off the slides, which are sourced (like actual screenshots) from the textbook. Which he forces you to buy for access to online homework.

Lol just looked him up on Rate My Professor. At least two comments mention the porn thing. That kind of slip up would get you fired from most backwater state schools, right? How is he still a professor here?

Comment deleted by user

HUH???? HOW?????

PoliSci '20 Took a summer class on international horror films thinking it would be chill and awesome. But the professor seemed to be in a bad mood every single meeting, and would absolutely shit on our writing (which really wasn’t unusual at all at Berkeley) but it was almost like she was resentful of the fact that everyone took the class as an elective. But the worst part was that there was certain material that we spent a lot time discussing in class and writing about but never assigned to actually engage with it. For example, we had to do an analysis of the film Psycho using Freud’s concepts, except we were never assigned to watch the film in class or on our own, nor were we assigned any readings from Freud. All we had to go off of were other secondary sources talking about them.

Best - Chien-I Chiang. Took Physics 5C with him, am taking Physics 110A with him, and will adjust my schedule to take Physics 112 with him. Great guy, excellent lecturer. Homeworks are relevant and exams are fair.

Chien-I is the goat!! I will also be taking 112 with him!

My AC professor. Tried to say assimilation is bad by equating it to cooking and how when you cook a stew, you’re committing violence against the ingredients. Also claimed Bezos was a trillionaire. Acted like a depressed, edgy 14 year old throughout the class. Easy A tho.

That metaphor would only apply to forced assimilation, which in this professor's defense, was definitely the case if we're talking most instances of imperialism, slavery, etc. But it fails when we move on to cases of passive assimilation, such as everyday immigration where the ingredients are moving to America by choice. Many come to this country enticed by the sweetness of the stew they'll be joining, but they do know that there will also be some spice to contend with. Source: my mom is a carrot, and my dad is a potato; I am their simple basil offspring.

Yeah exactly! She has a point, but the fact she painted all immigrants with a broad brush, in a class about American immigration, rubbed me the wrong way.

ChemE '15 I actually agree with him, he makes kind of an interesting point. It's a bit extreme and ignores the fact that stews are pretty good, but my dad also has stories of being beaten up on the bus when he was in high school for being Asian, and this was in San Francisco (in the 70s). Even in more recent times, there's the Asian hate crimes after COVID that still go on and the lies that JD Vance and Trump are stirring up with the Haitians eating cats and dogs. People are actually committing violence against immigrants in America to this day, and if you really pay attention to what Trump is calling for, violence isn't just a metaphor anymore. The edgy AC prof might actually end up being right.

I agree that a lot of assimilation does happen under threat of violence, and we all need to work to make sure that those become a thing of the past. What irks me is the rejection of the idea that assimilation happens peacefully too? Like I consider myself American because it provided my family and I a lot of opportunities? Again, forced assimilation due to violence and threat of violence are bad, I just don’t like how she painted the experience of immigrants with such a broad brush.

You will be assimilated, resistance is futile

brain worm controlling RFK’s body like ratatouille My AC prof was genuinely the worst I've had too. So bad that I actually went to the chairs office and complained (I've never formally complained like that before).

what was the result?

brain worm controlling RFK’s body like ratatouille I opened a case with the COCI and got my grade changed :)

Did you feel any retaliation after complaining?

What is COCI, I'm a transfer student and I am still trying to figure things out. Thanks for your response

Tried to say assimilation is bad by equating it to cooking and how when you cook a stew, you’re committing violence against the ingredients.

That’s what I thought too…

I am not looking forward to fulfilling the AC req lmao

spheniscimancy '17 it's been a while since i graduated, but i really enjoyed ESPM 160AC when i took it and have heard very good things about the other ESPM AC courses. very science/history-focused courses with very little professor grandstanding.

In Berkeleys defense, she was an extreme outlier. Literally every other professor and TA were fucking great

Which is worse — professors who overestimate the class’s intelligence and write really hard exams, then getting surprised seeing a 45% mean Professors who constantly treat the class like dumbasses and continue to slander us at every opportunity that they get, but write doable exams because they underestimate how smart we are

2nd. Had one that was the 1st, and refused to curve the class.

Robak. I know many liked her a lot and she was really caring and maybe it’s cause ochem is just so hard—I really didn’t like how rushed her lectures were and she assumed that we just knew what she was teaching :/

Skill issue

Ok but she's genuinely the cream of the crop. How could you say that? Such a skilled prof 😭

Because not everyone can absorb her rushed af ipad lectures 💀 marsden is arguably better