Major Recommendations for a Lifeless EECS Major I'm an EECS major but I feel like I'm spending too much of my time taking technicals (and I feel ded inside). I wanted to pursue a second major in the humanities (for my own sake, not for career/money), but since there are so many choices at Cal, I didn't know which one was the best choice for me. I want to major in something that's not too work-intensive (like English xd) but also a major that's intellectually stimulating with a lot of interesting/fun discussions/classes. I also want to develop my soft skills, like speaking/communicating, collaboration, project management, and emotional intelligence. Based on your guys' experience, what major (or minor) would you think will be the best for me? Thanks for the help!! :)

Comment deleted by user

Oh wow I completely forgot about that minor. I’ll be sure to check it out!

Comment deleted by user

Sounds fun, thanks for the recommendation!

Just remember that if you do a simultaneous degree in L&S you gotta do the 7 breadths also. In order to avoid that, you could switch to the CS major instead or simply minor in an L&S field.

Considering everything that is currently going on in the world, I would encourage you and any other engineering student to take an Ethnic Studies course. The classes I have taken so far are have been really interesting and taught me some of the "hidden" history of POC in this country. I'm an EECS major for context and I am planning on pursuing a simultaneous major in either Ethnic or Chicano Studies :)

Ah that’s a really good suggestion. Thanks for the advice!

Cannot second this more^

I think the most fun option (and one that I'd do if I was less lazy lol) is to learn a language. It has much more practical application than something like history/literature/etc. and if you're successful it exposes you to a whole new world of culture and interaction. You could also potentially study abroad for a semester to get more fluent. I think just following the language sequence and becoming fluent would be a lot more fun than completing a whole major, but that's your choice.

Haha yeah, studying abroad seems like a lot of fun. Definitely something that I’ll consider!

Physics/CS '20 I do want to warn that if you're pursuing humanities for personal edification, there's not that much reason to pursue a whole second major over it (as opposed to a minor). It'll more or less kill your ability to truly explore either of your majors, as you'll barely be able to graduate doing minimum coursework in each (while still having absolutely packed semesters).

Yeah, if I do pursue a major I’ll try to pursue one with as little coursework as possible. But I’m also leaning towards doing a minor. Thank you for the advice!

Comment deleted by user

Oh wow that’s really cool that you got to do field work. Thanks for all of the info!!

Physics/Math '13 rhetoric is a major ;)

Haha I’m lowkey really interested in rhetoric and arguments, but I heard the major is pretty hard. Do you know anything about the department?

Current rhetoric major here. The rhetoric department is amazing, in my opinion. It’s a rather smaller department within the humanities (compared to let’s say English or PolyScy), but the professors are incredible (mostly). Some of the most thought provoking, stimulating, and world-view changing conversations have occurred while in some of these classes. The subject and the department hit almost every aspect of what you’re looking for, except one thing—it’s pretty challenging and work intensive. That being said, most of (I would say 95%) of the work is reading. But it’s a shit ton of reading. Like a shit ton. This is purposeful, for a large part of the Rhetoric undergrad population is pre-law students. Many students take rhetoric with the specific intention of going to law school, and the insane reading workload is in preparation for that (if you‘be ever read any sort of legal documentation you know exactly why this is the case). The good news is, though, that none of the professors really expect you to read it all. You’ll always feel behind (which I hear is not uncommon at CAL). And, the reading isn’t, like , “fun” per se. it can be incredibly convoluted and dense (almost purposefully so at points (see: Derrida)), and a real struggle to even get through a handful of pages. But, the good professors do a really amazing job of translating the seemingly foreign language that you read. We talk about the fabrics of society, why we have the current function of society and why we should/shouldn’t have a different one. We talk about the uneasiness that exists in language and how our entire world experience is dependent upon that same language. We talk about revolutions, and war, and why we do those things and what those things even mean. We look at simulation theory, AI, Marxism, Shakespeare, Capitalism, then Marxism again, Ghandian nonviolence and imperialism, and, wait did I mention Marxism? All in all I would strongly recommend Rhetoric for some of the most interesting and confusing conversations you’ve ever had, but be prepared to do a lot of work, and be totally confused 80% of the time.

Ohh ok, that makes sense why rhetoric has a bad rep outside the major. Thanks for the info, rhetoric is one of the major choices I’m considering!!

Lol ya, no problem. Just out of curiosity, what is the rep like for rhetoric outside the major?

If you are interested at all in politics/ policy I would recommend the public policy minor! Lots of interesting class discussions on a wide variety of topics. Some of the classes are quite small, and undergrads are allowed to take some grad courses. There's classes in public health, econ, energy and resources, and political science that also count for the minor. Public policy work is often like consulting for a client, but the client is the government. So you will probably learn some PM skills while developing policy briefs.

Ooh ok, I love the small discussions and PM skills. I’ll be sure to check it out. Thanks!!

I love the slavic languages & literatures department (specifically the literature courses- in other words- russian lit!). When I first told people I take russian lit courses, they thought I was crazy for taking such tough courses. But the slavic department is great- easier than English with less reading, wonderful professors, small classes (the only department where pretty much every course <30 people), very intellectual conversations, not too hard. And bonus- imagine in an interview having EECS & russian lit on your resume- people will think you are so smart :) . In all honesty though, you learn a lot about some really interesting theories about how people think/behave (there's a lot of political & social theory, and psychology in russian lit) and it's a great community.

Wow, Russian lit sounds cool and you seem so passionate about it. I love that it delves into psych and philosophy too. Thank you so much for the advice!!

cs (crying and sobbing) '22 hey, never seen someone specifically interested in this before! what russian lit classes have you taken, or would recommend for someone who's pretty much a beginner? I've read the brothers karamazov a couple of times and really loved it, and started a few other novels but I keep getting busy and then when I'm free again I forget who all the characters are LOL so I really want to take a guided russian lit class sometime in my academic career. I know slavic 45 (??) is the classic course and it counts for an arts/lit breadth too but I'm wondering if you recommend any other classes too, in case that one is not offered during a semester when I'm actually free to do a lot of reading :))

I'd recommend slavic 45 (yes- that's probably the standard beginner course- 19th century lit) or slavic 46 (20th century lit). One of those two will be offered every semester. Fall 2020 is offering slavic 45. I took slavic 45 and highly recommend it- I personally find 19th century lit to be more interesting than 20th because that's when the "great" writers lived- Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, etc. But the 20th century is great too. Beyond those two, there is almost always some upper-div course with a deep-dive into a couple of greatest Russian lit books- sometimes its war and peace,sometimes crime & punishment, anna Karenina, etc. Usually those courses will cover 2 great novels in depth. Other than that, there will be some courses in Russian & some random courses (this semester, there's a children's lit course) I wished that the survey courses (slavic 45 & 46) could slow down a bit but their goal is to expose you to as much Russian lit as possible so they are definitely more of breath rather than depth course. If you want depth, take the upper-div seminars. Obviously, this is still Russian lit so its not going to ""easy""- but it's reasonable & there's a lot of support. Also, its just nice to not be in 500 person lecture halls tbh- these classes run on discussion like you might in a liberal arts college. I also got into Russian lit by reading one book- Crime & Punishment. At the risk of sounding melodramatic, it changed my life and really changed the way I think of the world and of crime. Russian lit is special in the sense that there was a lot of government censorship by the Russian government especially in the 19th century - so Russian writers imbedded political, social, philosophical, and psychological commentary into their text- things they just couldn't write directly. These texts are soo rich- they teach you so much about the world. And taking it with professors who are experts in it (and who, unlike most departments, know your name!) is wonderful.

Wow, you seem really passionate about this! Have you by any chance taken any class with or heard of Maria Whittle? I’ve signed up for Slavic R5B class with her called “Criminal Minds”, a class about anti social behavior in pop culture. I think some of the books we’ll be reading are Notes from Underground by Dostoyevsky and In a Lonely Place by Dorothy Hughes

I have not- but she's likely a PHD student if its an r&bc

cs (crying and sobbing) '22 alright, I will check those out! you sound rlly passionate about this, thanks for sharing :)) Beyond those two, there is almost always some upper-div course with a deep-dive into a couple of greatest Russian lit books yea, I remember once there was a UD class that just read c&p and anna karenina for the entire semester that I wanted to take but seems I can't find it at the moment :(( I'll look for something similar though!

Can you apply for a simultaneous major as EECS? Isn't that already treated as a double major by COE? Edit: just to be clear, my intention is not to discourage you, I just remembered reading something along these lines on the website when I was looking into simultaneous major - my base degree is in COE too

Omg yeah I completely forgot about the simultaneous degree thing. I’ve heard of EECS students taking L&S majors also, so I’m guessing it’s possible. But thank you for the reminder!

just wondering is there a particular reason why you decided on a second major instead of club involvement?

Yeah, the same reason as what AdministrativeDot8 said. Also I have very little exposure to the humanities prior to this, so I think the student community, professors, and alumni that come with a major are really helpful, at least for me.

I'm guessing clubs don't provide the kind of intellectual stimulation you get in an arts class? Though what I don't understand is why OP can't just take some random stuff they think seems interesting. Why an entire major?

I might start out taking a few courses here and there, but I’m very intrigued by the humanities in general, to the point where I want to take multiple classes and focus on a subject of inquiry. That’s why I want to pursue a second major.

Check out American Studies. It’s got everything on your list, except maybe the project management part.

I’ll be sure to check it out. Thanks!!