61a John DeNero 🧸 I just want to say that I love you, professor. You gave me a great lesson last night with that midterm. Even though I only got a single digit on Midterm 1, I am eager to work harder, study more, and not drop the course because I really want to learn. I’ll do my best in this course. Thank you, professor! I know you read reddit, and that was great lesson… even good things don’t come without consequences!🐻💙💛 stay strong you all!!! You all got this Just an update: I pass the class _^

I got 11 points on mt1 and ended up with a b- you’ll be fine trust. Biggest advice I can give is actually go to lecture lab and discussions which I know sounds obvious but a lot of people don’t. I ended up interning at Amazon and at a startup so a score on a midterm doesn’t define who you are as a person

Yes to be honest garde is not what people who they are! As someone who lost so many family members and is still fighting for life in this world, I know grade isn't going to stop you from being who you are. Thank you!

Bruh got fucked and is still glazing

Don’t stress it — a lot of people do bad on midterm 1 but recover with the clobber policy. I’m pretty sure that your midterm 1 score can get bumped to 90% of your final exam score. And if you’re new to programming, your score here is probably more so indicative of you still getting used to coding/Python. So as you get more experience over the semester, there’s a good chance it’ll start to feel easier and easier once you overcome that curve. Most important thing is that you don’t let it bring you down, since you can absolutely recover your grade and, more importantly, this score isn’t at all indicative of your ability to do CS. Everyone has a hard time during the initial learning curve, and those who make it over are those that stick with it.

That was really nice thank you 🧸

feeling the same way actually, i was going to post something similar if i didn't already see a thread about it. didn't do as well on the midterm as i wanted to but i genuinely have not studied for anything more in my entire life. it kind of stings to hear the amount of people that truly excelled this midterm but i'm hoping i do better next time and hopefully am more happy with my score and progress.

Senior here that had all her peers bragging about their scores freshman year. Switched to data science bc I was insecure but later switched back to CS and now I’m going to Meta. I still remember how bad it stung: don’t compare and work hard and everything works out.

truly inspirational, thanks so much

No worries man. I got like 11/40 and based on the stats it looks like everyone got a score higher than me. Feels bad but we’re gonna pass don’t worry

Comment Image It's deneroful! He even emails you if you get full score on the whole course.

Is this NLP 😂

John, if you are reading this I lied. I cheated on everything in CS 61A

I'd be more impressed in how you even pulled that off if you're being fr

It only goes downhill from here

You got this bro! 61A is an amazing course, it feels a bit rough since it’s the first real CS course you are taking, but everything is taught in great details and the assignments are pretty much hand-holding, if you can make it through, it’s going to be very enriching and opens up a new world to you. I believe there is a final clobber policy, so don’t worry too much about your score just now, make sure to grind on the past exams, they are really helpful.

Comment Imagethank you I hope everything goes well, I have positive thoughts

why don't you just email him

Sometimes being anonymous is good, I have anxiety

Comment deleted by user

Thank you